Discussed Infosilem proposal
Article 21 on University Procedures - should negotiate when admin puts new burdens on our work


Two new proposals came today from admin:
Adding grad students to those who can be suspended without pay

Accounting for vacation for anyone who is on a calendar year appointment

Dec 6
Irene Moly pres of AAUP and Randi Weingarten pres of AFT will be present for the action

Consuella was on the other side of the bargaining table!


We want a meeting on antidiscrimination language.

No dates have been offered for Postdoc unit
Union would like to combine negotiation sessions

Have been waiting for 6 months for a response to Article 8 (salary propsla)
This is not respectful

Admin says they will respond to Article 8 on Dec 6

Discussion of Infosilem and the detrimental effect on course attendance due to scheduling by algorithm, which can suppress enrollment in courses covering non-mainstream, diverse topics by placing them in undesirable time slots.
Infosilem disenfranchises faculty expertise as well.  No demonstrated benefit - the bus problem is not solved.  Infosilem should be used to schedule classrooms(places), but not faculty assignments (people).

There was a lengthy back-and-forth about the versioning of the Infosilem proposal that was inconclusive.

In the offline commentary, discussion was around whether the admin’s obfuscate and delay tactics were a deliberate attempt to wear down the union side.

Remaining minutes discussed a proposal that would require the University to notify of any proposed change in rules affecting conditions of work, including changes of hours of work, schedules, and scheduling requirements.  New travel system was cited as vastly increasing the cost of travel.  This damages Rutgers research/service impact.  This and other systems make work harder at Rutgers.  Systems should not divert energy from research, teaching, and service.  Hurting grad students as well, who may self-fund travel or just not go.  New tools like Academic Analytics, Cornerstone were introduced without feedback, making policy through information technology.  Big expensive software systems are bought that limit options, increase costs, reduce flexibility.  Allow the faculty to help the University by contributing their expertise when these decisions are made.

Admin introduced two proposals:

Appendix H

Current options for punishment at the University are

NTTs and TA/GAs can only be terminated for cause.

TT faculty can get suspension without pay for a semester

Introducing a new option of suspension without pay for up to six weeks.  However, this option takes out advice from committee of faculty chairs review to expedite the process.


Article 22

Conditions of employment.

This addresses Calendar year employee’s vacation.  The 22 days vacation would be accumulated gradually with time (not at the beginning of the year).  Vacation must be used by the end of the year or forfeited.

In general, the bargaining sessions are just being drawn out by the administration as a delaying tactic.

As Todd Wolfson says, there must be a strong show at the Board of Governors meeting on Tuesday, Dec 6.  The administration will only respond to this kind of threat.

«Direct action gets the goods!» 

